# Overview

Due by 11:30am on Wednesday May 29th.

# Fork the `hw03` repository

Go [here](https://github.com/css-research/hw03) to fork the repo for homework 03.

## Part 1: Visualization critique (5 points)

Select a data visualization and write a (roughly) 1000 word critique of the visualization based on the five qualities of great visualizations:^[Drawn from chapter 2 of *The Truthful Art: Data, charts, and maps for communication* by Alberto Cairo.]

* Is it truthful?
* Is it functional?
* Is it beautiful?
* Is it insightful?
* Is it enlightening?

Remember that to critique something does not mean to tear it down or find all the flaws. Critiques should include both positive and negative aspects - what did the author do well? What are the weaknesses of the visualization? How could the truthfulness of the visualization be improved?

#### Finding a visualization

Some good resources for finding visualizations to critique:

* Academic journals/books in your field which include graphs or charts (you don't have to find some super-duper high tech interactive graph on the web)
* [r/dataisbeautiful](https://www.reddit.com/r/dataisbeautiful/)
* Nathan Yau's [Flowing Data blog](http://flowingdata.com/)
* [FiveThirtyEight](https://fivethirtyeight.com/) or [The Upshot](https://www.nytimes.com/section/upshot) - or really any other data journalism site

## Part 2: Design a visualization (5 points)

Your assignment is to design a static visualization (i.e. a single image) that effectively communicates a data-driven story and provide a written explanation (approximately 500-750 words) describing your design. You should use any dataset you choose, making necessary transformations and summarizations as appropriate. The visualization should be interpretable without reference to your written explanation, so be sure to include all the necessary components (e.g. title, axis labels, legends).

Your visualization will be evaluated using the same criteria as for part 1:

* Is it truthful?
* Is it functional?
* Is it beautiful?
* Is it insightful?
* Is it enlightening?

In your written explanation, be sure to rigorously defend your design choices. This includes (but is not limited to):

* What is the story?
* Why did you select this graphical form?
* Why did you use each channel to encode the data (e.g. spatial position, size, color, scale)?
* How do these decisions facilitate effective communication?

> This assignment is deceptively difficult. Not only do you need to correctly implement the graph using a package such as `ggplot2` or `matplotlib`, but you also need to think critically about your design choices. You will go through several (if not many) drafts of your visualization. **Use Git to track changes to your graphic.**

# Submission format

* Submit your solution to part 1 as a Markdown or PDF document
* Submit your solution to part 2 as a Jupyter Notebook (if Python) or R Markdown document (if R)
